README.md, before:

Make the data from USB power meters usable in the Firefox Profiler.

# Quick start
The following instructions will start a server on `localhost:2121`.
```
git clone https://github.com/fqueze/usb-power-profiling.git
cd usb-power-profiling
npm i
node usb-power-profiling.js
```

Then open [the Firefox Profiler UI](https://profiler.firefox.com/from-url/http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A2121%2Fprofile/calltree/) to load the data from the meter.

## External power profiling in the Firefox Profiler
In Firefox 121 or later:
- in `about:config`, set the `devtools.performance.recording.power.external-url` preference to `http://localhost:2121/power`.
- use the 'power' preset (or any configuration that uses the 'power' feature) when starting the profiler.
- When capturing the profile, the Firefox Profiler will automatically fetch additional power tracks and add them to the profile.

## Seeing a profile containing only the data from the USB power meter

[Load](https://profiler.firefox.com/from-url/http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A2121%2Fprofile/calltree/?v=10) `http://localhost:2121/profile` in the [Firefox Profiler](https://profiler.firefox.com). 

## HTTP API
- `GET /profile` will return a profile containing all the data since the script has started. You can view it by [loading it](https://profiler.firefox.com/from-url/http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A2121%2Fprofile/calltree/?v=10) in the [Firefox Profiler](https://profiler.firefox.com).
- `GET /power?start=<start timestamp in ms>&end=<end timestamp in ms>` returns only a power track to be added into a profile from the Gecko Profiler. The start timestamp should be `profile.meta.startTime + profile.meta.profilingStartTime` from the profile and the end timestamp should be `profile.meta.startTime + profile.meta.profilingEndTime`.

# Supported devices
## Power meters known to work
The example profiles are taken using a USB light, first keeping the light off for a while to record noise from the power meter, then turning the light on at different levels of brightness for about 5s, and finally turning the light off again.
|Brand|Model|Example profile|Min interval between samples|Notes|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|ChargerLab Power-Z|FL001 Super|https://share.firefox.dev/4714rQQ|32ms|   |
|ChargerLab Power-Z|KM001Pro   |https://share.firefox.dev/4ag8xqN|2ms|   |
|ChargerLab Power-Z|KT002      |https://share.firefox.dev/3RkPsvf|1ms|Samples contain timestamps in µs, and sampling is driven by the power meter, making the sampling rate very consistent (no degradation of the data when the USB bus is busy)|
|ChargerLab Power-Z|KM003C     |https://share.firefox.dev/3Rg6z15|1ms|Sampling driven by the computer, causing overhead on the computer and relying on the USB communication being smooth.|
|Shizuku	YK-Lab|YK001 |||See Power-Z KT002. Alternative names: AVHzY CT-3, Power-Z KT002, or ATORCH UT18.|
|Shizuku	YK-Lab|YK003C|||See AVHzY C3.|
|AVHzY|CT-3      |||See Power-Z KT002. |
|AVHzY|C3        |https://share.firefox.dev/41BVhcf|1ms|Samples contain timestamps in µs, and sampling is driven by the power meter, making the sampling rate very consistent (no degradation of the data when the USB bus is busy)|
|AVHzY|TC66C (RD)|||See RuiDeng TC66C|
|FNIRSI|C1    |https://share.firefox.dev/4asQhLh|10ms|Significant power use changes are smoothed over 500ms.|
|FNIRSI|FNB48S|https://share.firefox.dev/3RjtVTl|10ms|Significant power use changes are smoothed over 120ms.|
|RuiDeng|TC66C|https://share.firefox.dev/3v4AvFV|80ms|Sampling rate depends on how much data is displayed on the power meter's screen. With the full display, 100ms is the minimum interval between samples. With only the main 3 values displayed, 90ms is in the minimum between samples, with a static screen (eg. settings) the minimum interval is 80ms. Significant power changes take up to [500ms to stabilize](https://share.firefox.dev/48w6Hkc) (with a few samples showing only a part of the change).|
|WITRN|C5|https://share.firefox.dev/41nqAaQ|10ms|Samples contain timestamps in ms.|
|ATORCH|ACD15P|https://share.firefox.dev/3SIWpGS|1s|Very low sampling rate.|
## Power meters likely to work
Compatibility with these devices has not been verified, but they are likely to either "just work", or work with a trivial adjustment to the code (eg. tweak a USB product id).
|Brand|Model|Notes|
|---|---|---|
|ChargerLab Power-Z|KM002C|Same protocol as the KM003C.|
|FNIRSI|FNB48|Expected to use the same protocol as the FNIRSI C1.|
|FNIRSI|FNB48P|Expected to be the same as the FNIRSI FNB48S in a different package.|
|FNIRSI|FNB58|Expected to use the same protocol as the FNIRSI FNB48S.|
|RuiDeng|TC66|Expected to use the same protocol as the TC66C.|
|WITRN|A2|Expected to use the same protocol as the C5.|
|WITRN|A2L|Expected to use the same protocol as the C5.|
|WITRN|A2C|Expected to use the same protocol as the C5.|
|WITRN|U3|Expected to use the same protocol as the C5.|
|WITRN|U3L|Expected to use the same protocol as the C5.|
|WITRN|C4 / C4L|Expected to be the same as the C5 with lower data precision.|
|ATORCH|C13P|Expected to be the same as the ACD15P.|

Commit message:

Add support for the YZXStudio 1280E power meter.

README.md, after:

Make the data from USB power meters usable in the Firefox Profiler.

# Quick start
The following instructions will start a server on `localhost:2121`.
```
git clone https://github.com/fqueze/usb-power-profiling.git
cd usb-power-profiling
npm i
node usb-power-profiling.js
```

Then open [the Firefox Profiler UI](https://profiler.firefox.com/from-url/http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A2121%2Fprofile/calltree/) to load the data from the meter.

## External power profiling in the Firefox Profiler
In Firefox 121 or later:
- in `about:config`, set the `devtools.performance.recording.power.external-url` preference to `http://localhost:2121/power`.
- use the 'power' preset (or any configuration that uses the 'power' feature) when starting the profiler.
- When capturing the profile, the Firefox Profiler will automatically fetch additional power tracks and add them to the profile.

## Seeing a profile containing only the data from the USB power meter

[Load](https://profiler.firefox.com/from-url/http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A2121%2Fprofile/calltree/?v=10) `http://localhost:2121/profile` in the [Firefox Profiler](https://profiler.firefox.com). 

## HTTP API
- `GET /profile` will return a profile containing all the data since the script has started. You can view it by [loading it](https://profiler.firefox.com/from-url/http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A2121%2Fprofile/calltree/?v=10) in the [Firefox Profiler](https://profiler.firefox.com).
- `GET /power?start=<start timestamp in ms>&end=<end timestamp in ms>` returns only a power track to be added into a profile from the Gecko Profiler. The start timestamp should be `profile.meta.startTime + profile.meta.profilingStartTime` from the profile and the end timestamp should be `profile.meta.startTime + profile.meta.profilingEndTime`.

# Supported devices
## Power meters known to work
The example profiles are taken using a USB light, first keeping the light off for a while to record noise from the power meter, then turning the light on at different levels of brightness for about 5s, and finally turning the light off again.
|Brand|Model|Example profile|Min interval between samples|Notes|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|ChargerLab Power-Z|FL001 Super|https://share.firefox.dev/4714rQQ|32ms|   |
|ChargerLab Power-Z|KM001Pro   |https://share.firefox.dev/4ag8xqN|2ms|   |
|ChargerLab Power-Z|KT002      |https://share.firefox.dev/3RkPsvf|1ms|Samples contain timestamps in µs, and sampling is driven by the power meter, making the sampling rate very consistent (no degradation of the data when the USB bus is busy)|
|ChargerLab Power-Z|KM003C     |https://share.firefox.dev/3Rg6z15|1ms|Sampling driven by the computer, causing overhead on the computer and relying on the USB communication being smooth.|
|Shizuku	YK-Lab|YK001 |||See Power-Z KT002. Alternative names: AVHzY CT-3, Power-Z KT002, or ATORCH UT18.|
|Shizuku	YK-Lab|YK003C|||See AVHzY C3.|
|AVHzY|CT-3      |||See Power-Z KT002. |
|AVHzY|C3        |https://share.firefox.dev/41BVhcf|1ms|Samples contain timestamps in µs, and sampling is driven by the power meter, making the sampling rate very consistent (no degradation of the data when the USB bus is busy)|
|AVHzY|TC66C (RD)|||See RuiDeng TC66C|
|FNIRSI|C1    |https://share.firefox.dev/4asQhLh|10ms|Significant power use changes are smoothed over 500ms.|
|FNIRSI|FNB48S|https://share.firefox.dev/3RjtVTl|10ms|Significant power use changes are smoothed over 120ms.|
|RuiDeng|TC66C|https://share.firefox.dev/3v4AvFV|80ms|Sampling rate depends on how much data is displayed on the power meter's screen. With the full display, 100ms is the minimum interval between samples. With only the main 3 values displayed, 90ms is in the minimum between samples, with a static screen (eg. settings) the minimum interval is 80ms. Significant power changes take up to [500ms to stabilize](https://share.firefox.dev/48w6Hkc) (with a few samples showing only a part of the change).|
|WITRN|C5|https://share.firefox.dev/41nqAaQ|10ms|Samples contain timestamps in ms.|
|ATORCH|ACD15P|https://share.firefox.dev/3SIWpGS|1s|Very low sampling rate.|
|YZXStudio|1280E|https://share.firefox.dev/3Wr9HeW|250ms|Low sampling rate. Significant power changes take up to 500ms (2 samples) to stabilize. Seems to have a low level of noise, making it possible to see a difference between low power values ( <10mW) and 0.|
## Power meters likely to work
Compatibility with these devices has not been verified, but they are likely to either "just work", or work with a trivial adjustment to the code (eg. tweak a USB product id).
|Brand|Model|Notes|
|---|---|---|
|ChargerLab Power-Z|KM002C|Same protocol as the KM003C.|
|FNIRSI|FNB48|Expected to use the same protocol as the FNIRSI C1.|
|FNIRSI|FNB48P|Expected to be the same as the FNIRSI FNB48S in a different package.|
|FNIRSI|FNB58|Expected to use the same protocol as the FNIRSI FNB48S.|
|RuiDeng|TC66|Expected to use the same protocol as the TC66C.|
|WITRN|A2|Expected to use the same protocol as the C5.|
|WITRN|A2L|Expected to use the same protocol as the C5.|
|WITRN|A2C|Expected to use the same protocol as the C5.|
|WITRN|U3|Expected to use the same protocol as the C5.|
|WITRN|U3L|Expected to use the same protocol as the C5.|
|WITRN|C4 / C4L|Expected to be the same as the C5 with lower data precision.|
|ATORCH|C13P|Expected to be the same as the ACD15P.|
